site/_docs/stack/index.md, before:

---
title: Getting Started
component: stack
permalink: /docs/stack/
priority: 0
---

The Apache Flagon project provides a streamlined deployment solution for including behavioral logging capabilities in your project and for monitoring and analyzing your log data in a containerized Elastic backend.  Our Docker container includes an Elastic backend, pre-configured, interactive Kibana dashboards. The container also includes prototype applications for exploration, Apache Distill and Apache Tap.  

Before you begin, you'll need [NPM and Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed before you start.

### Building and Deploying UserALE.js

[Apache UserALE.js](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs) is the Apache Flagon's thin-client behavioral logging solution. Below, you'll find short-hand instructions for getting started with UserALE.js. For complete instructions, see our [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/blob/master/README.md).

First, download the [release](http://flagon.incubator.apache.org/releases/) or clone our [repo on GitHub](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master). Apache UserALE.js is also available as an [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/useralejs).

Next, **install Dependencies**.
  ```shell
  #intall NPM packages into build directory
  $ npm install
  ```

Then, **build UserALE.js**.
  ```shell
  #produce UserALE.js build artifacts
  $ npm run build
  ```

The build process produced a minified version of UserALE.js and a Web Extension package, giving you two options depending on your needs. 

**Option 1: Include Apache UserALE.js in your project:**

  ```markdown
  #include userale in your project via script tag 
  <script src="/path/to/userale-1.0.0.min.js" data-url="http://yourLoggingUrl"></script>
  ```
Apache UserALE.js allows for configuration via HTML 5 data parameters. For a complete list of options, see the [docs]({{ '/docs/useralejs' | prepend: site.baseurl }}) or the [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/blob/master/README.md). You can also modify Apache UserALE.js using our API. Find examples in our [repos](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/FLAGON-192).

**Option 2: Follow the [instructions](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/FLAGON-192/src/UserALEWebExtension) to install the Apache UserALE.js web extension into your browser.**

You can now start generating behavioral log data from your page, or through your browser. To view these logs, you can either utilize our [example logging server](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master/example) and log to file, or you can log directly to our Elastic backend. For complete instructions, see the [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/docker)
### Building and Using the Elastic Backend

[Apache Flagon](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon) utilizes an Elastic stack for transforming, indexing, and storing log data. With Elastic, you'll not only have the ability to search and query log dat, but you'll also be able to monitor it and visualize it through Kibana.

To build our single-node Elastic instance, **first clone our [Docker repo](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/docker)**. Note that for production-level deployments, you should probably check out our [Kubernetes build](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/kubernetes) and our [guide for scaling]({{ '/docs/stack/scaling' | prepend: site.baseurl }})).

Then, **start up a virtual machine**.
  ```shell
# start virtual machine and requisite network 
$ docker-machine create --virtualbox-memory 3072 --virtualbox-cpu-count 2 senssoft
$ docker-machine ssh senssoft sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
$ docker network create esnet
  ```
Next, **start Elastic services**.

  ```shell
 #start Elastic services
 $ docker-compose up -d elasticsearch
 $ docker-compuse up -d logstash
 $ docker-compose up -d kibana
  ```
**Configure UserALE.js** to send logs to localhost:8100. This is easy: either modify the script tag for port 8100 or open up the "options" tab of the web extension and enter localhost:8100 as your logging end-point.

Before starting Kibana, **generate some logs**. Move your mouse around, click around, etc. Do this for a couple minutes to populate the index.

Finally, **navigate to localhost:5601 (Kibaba), set an index pattern, and load our visualizations and dashboards** to see your logs. Find simple instructions in our [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/docker).

Subscribe to our [dev list](dev-subscribe@flagon.incubator.apache.org) and join the conversation!

Commit message:

[FLAGON-379] Finished Scaling guide (just need to add image references), made minor related changes to other docs referenced in scaling guide

site/_docs/stack/index.md, after:

---
title: Getting Started
component: stack
permalink: /docs/stack/
priority: 0
---

The Apache Flagon project provides a streamlined deployment solution for including behavioral logging capabilities in your project and for monitoring and analyzing your log data in a containerized Elastic backend.  Our Docker container includes an Elastic backend, pre-configured, interactive Kibana dashboards. The container also includes prototype applications for exploration, Apache Distill and Apache Tap.  

Before you begin, you'll need [NPM and Node.js](https://nodejs.org/), [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed before you start.

### Building and Deploying UserALE.js

[Apache UserALE.js](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs) is the Apache Flagon's thin-client behavioral logging solution. Below, you'll find short-hand instructions for getting started with UserALE.js. For complete instructions, see our [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/blob/master/README.md).

First, download the [release](http://flagon.incubator.apache.org/releases/) or clone our [repo on GitHub](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master). Apache UserALE.js is also available as an [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/useralejs).

Next, **install Dependencies**.
  ```shell
  #intall NPM packages into build directory
  $ npm install
  ```

Then, **build UserALE.js**.
  ```shell
  #produce UserALE.js build artifacts
  $ npm run build
  ```

The build process produces a minified version of UserALE.js and a Web Extension package, giving you two options depending on your needs. You can skip the build process if you just want to explore UserALE.js; just use the minified script found in our [repo](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master/build).

**Option 1: Include Apache UserALE.js in your project:**

  ```markdown
  #include userale in your project via script tag 
  <script src="/path/to/userale-1.0.0.min.js" data-url="http://yourLoggingUrl"></script>
  ```
Apache UserALE.js allows for configuration via HTML 5 data parameters. For a complete list of options, see the [docs]({{ '/docs/useralejs' | prepend: site.baseurl }}) or the [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/blob/master/README.md). You can also modify Apache UserALE.js using our API. Find examples in our [repos](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/FLAGON-192).

**Option 2: Follow the [instructions](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/FLAGON-192/src/UserALEWebExtension) to install the Apache UserALE.js web extension into your browser.**

You can now start generating behavioral log data from your page, or through your browser. To view these logs, you can either utilize our [example logging server](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master/example) and log to file, or you can log directly to our Elastic backend. For complete instructions, see the [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/docker)
### Building and Using the Elastic Backend

[Apache Flagon](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon) utilizes an Elastic stack for transforming, indexing, and storing log data. With Elastic, you'll not only have the ability to search and query log dat, but you'll also be able to monitor it and visualize it through Kibana.

To build our single-node Elastic instance, **first clone our [Docker repo](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/docker)**. Note that for production-level deployments, you should probably check out our [Kubernetes build](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/kubernetes) and our [guide for scaling]({{ '/docs/stack/scaling' | prepend: site.baseurl }})).

Then, **start up a virtual machine**.
  ```shell
# start virtual machine and requisite network 
$ docker-machine create --virtualbox-memory 3072 --virtualbox-cpu-count 2 senssoft
$ docker-machine ssh senssoft sudo sysctl -w vm.max_map_count=262144
$ docker network create esnet
  ```
Next, **start Elastic services**.

  ```shell
 #start Elastic services
 $ docker-compose up -d elasticsearch
 $ docker-compuse up -d logstash
 $ docker-compose up -d kibana
  ```
**Configure UserALE.js** to send logs to localhost:8100. This is easy: either modify the script tag for port 8100 or open up the "options" tab of the web extension and enter localhost:8100 as your logging end-point.

Before starting Kibana, **generate some logs**. Move your mouse around, click around, etc. Do this for a couple minutes to populate the index.

Finally, **navigate to localhost:5601 (Kibaba), set an index pattern, and load our visualizations and dashboards** to see your logs. Find simple instructions in our [README](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon/tree/master/docker).

Subscribe to our [dev list](dev-subscribe@flagon.incubator.apache.org) and join the conversation!
