site/_docs/useralejs/API.md, before:

---
title: The UserALE.js API
component: useralejs
permalink: /docs/useralejs/API/
priority: 2
---

[Apache UserALE.js](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs) features a robust API that allows you 
customize official Apache Flagon UserALE.js [builds](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master/build) page-by-page to suite your needs.

The API exposes two functions: `setLogFilter` & `setLogMapper`. With these two powerful functions, you have a lot of 
latitude in customizing and curating your logs.

# API Usage

To invoke the API, simply add additional javascript code blocks under your UserALE.js script tag.

Don't forget to add the UserALE.js script tag:


```html
<head>
  <title>UserAleJS - Example Page</title>
 <!--
 Add the UserALE.js script tag to the top of your doc
 -->
   <script src="/path/to/userale-1.0.0.min.js" data-url="http://yourLoggingUrl"></script>
```


## `setLogFilter` Examples

`setLogFilter` allows you to eliminate log data you don't need or want from your log stream:


```html
<!--
Add additional code blocks to set the filters you want
This simple array filter pulls mouseover data out of your log stream
-->
  <script type="text/javascript">
    window.userale.filter(function (log) {
      return (log.type != 'mouseover');
    });
  </script>
```


Here is one UserALE.js filter to rule them all!


```html
<!-- 
Modify the array page-by-page to curate your log stream:
by adding unwanted event 'types' in type_array;
by adding unwanted log classes to eliminate 'raw' or 'interval' logs from your stream.
-->
  <script type="text/javascript">
    var type_array = ['mouseup', 'mouseover', 'dblclick', 'blur', 'focus']
    var logType_array = ['interval']
    window.userale.filter(function (log) {
      return !type_array.includes(log.type) && !logType_array.includes(log.logType);
    });
  </script>
```


You can also use the `setLogFilter` function to do other cool stuff. Below is an example for how to further modify the 
rate at which UserALE.js collects data, but dropping every other log (odd-even) in the logging queue. 


```html
    <script type="text/javascript">
      var logCounter = 0;
      window.userale.filter(function (log) {
        return (logCounter++ % 2);
      });
    </script>
```


## `setLogMapper` Examples

`setLogMapper` allows you to modify or add new fields to UserALE.js logs.

This simple mapping function adds a new log field for custom labels you want to attach to certain elements: 


```html
<!--
This will add your label to all event logs that reference a particular DOM target.
-->
    <script type="text/javascript">
      window.userale.map(function (log) {
        var targetsForLabels = ["button#test_button"];
        if (targetsForLabels.includes(log.target)) {
            return Object.assign({}, log, { CustomLabel: "Click me!" });
        } else {
            return log;  
        } 
      });
    </script>
```


This cool mapping function adds a progressive count on a given element ("app") and writes to a new log field 
called "score"


```html
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="app">
      <button id="increment">+</button>
      <button id="decrement">-</button>
      <div id="scoreboard"></div>
    </div>
  </script> 

    <script type="text/javascript">
      var score = 0;
      var scoreBoard = document.getElementById('scoreboard');
      scoreBoard.innerText = '0';

      function setScore(nextScore) {
        score = nextScore;
        scoreBoard.innerText = String(score);
      }

      document.getElementById('increment').addEventListener('click', function () {
        setScore(score + 1);
      });

      document.getElementById('decrement').addEventListener('click', function () {
        if (score) {
          setScore(score - 1);
        }
      });

      window.userale.map(function (log) {
        return Object.assign({}, log, { score: score }); // Add the "score" property to the log
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>

```


Test these examples out in our UserALE.js [example page](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/blob/master/example/index.html) test utility!

### Benefits of the UserALE.js API
 * No need to dig into our source code
 * Version control is easy and no need to sweat merges--just download the latest [release]({{ '/releases' | prepend: site.baseurl }}), 
    or update via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/flagon-userale).
 * Manage logs page-by-page, ideal for large or complex sites
 * Use basic or best-practice JS styles and methods to build your own filters, no need to learn weird custom syntax.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!  Simply [submit an issue report](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLAGON) for problems 
you encounter or a pull request for your feature or bug fix.  The core team will review it and work with you to 
incorporate it into UserALE.js.

Commit message:

[FLAGON-444] Added options API example in API examples

site/_docs/useralejs/API.md, after:

---
title: The UserALE.js API
component: useralejs
permalink: /docs/useralejs/API/
priority: 2
---

[Apache UserALE.js](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs) features a robust API that allows you 
customize official Apache Flagon UserALE.js [builds](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master/build) page-by-page to suite your needs.

The API exposes a number of functions, including: `options`, `setLogFilter`, & `setLogMapper`. With these two powerful functions, you have a lot of 
latitude in customizing and curating your logs.

# API Usage

To invoke the API, simply add additional javascript code blocks under your UserALE.js script tag.

Don't forget to add the UserALE.js script tag! For an in depth example, see our [Getting Started Guide]({{ '/docs/useralejs' | prepend: site.baseurl }})) and our [example test utility](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/tree/master/example).


```html
<head>
  <title>UserAleJS - Example Page</title>
 <!--
 Add the UserALE.js script tag to the top of your doc
 -->
   <script src="/path/to/userale-2.0.0.min.js" data-url="http://yourLoggingUrl"></script>
```

## `options` Examples

`options` allows you to modify UserALE.js script tag parameters. This can be particularly useful if need to pass additional data about users from your page into the logging parameters, like username and sessionID. You can build variables constructors that pass data from form data or browser storage to UserALE's paramters. 

```html
<!--
Try out the options API to pass dynamic page data into your UserALE params page by page.
-->
<script type="text/javascript">
    const changeMe = "me";
    window.userale.options({
      "userId": changeMe,
      "version": "4.0.2",
      "sessionID": "4"
    })
</script>
```

## `setLogFilter` Examples

`setLogFilter` allows you to eliminate log data you don't need or want from your log stream:


```html
<!--
Add additional code blocks to set the filters you want
This simple array filter pulls mouseover data out of your log stream
-->
  <script type="text/javascript">
    window.userale.filter(function (log) {
      return (log.type != 'mouseover');
    });
  </script>
```


Here is one UserALE.js filter to rule them all!


```html
<!-- 
Modify the array page-by-page to curate your log stream:
by adding unwanted event 'types' in type_array;
by adding unwanted log classes to eliminate 'raw' or 'interval' logs from your stream.
-->
  <script type="text/javascript">
    var type_array = ['mouseup', 'mouseover', 'dblclick', 'blur', 'focus']
    var logType_array = ['interval']
    window.userale.filter(function (log) {
      return !type_array.includes(log.type) && !logType_array.includes(log.logType);
    });
  </script>
```


You can also use the `setLogFilter` function to do other cool stuff. Below is an example for how to further modify the 
rate at which UserALE.js collects data, but dropping every other log (odd-even) in the logging queue. 


```html
    <script type="text/javascript">
      var logCounter = 0;
      window.userale.filter(function (log) {
        return (logCounter++ % 2);
      });
    </script>
```


## `setLogMapper` Examples

`setLogMapper` allows you to modify or add new fields to UserALE.js logs.

This simple mapping function adds a new log field for custom labels you want to attach to certain elements: 


```html
<!--
This will add your label to all event logs that reference a particular DOM target.
-->
    <script type="text/javascript">
      window.userale.map(function (log) {
        var targetsForLabels = ["button#test_button"];
        if (targetsForLabels.includes(log.target)) {
            return Object.assign({}, log, { CustomLabel: "Click me!" });
        } else {
            return log;  
        } 
      });
    </script>
```


This cool mapping function adds a progressive count on a given element ("app") and writes to a new log field 
called "score"


```html
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="app">
      <button id="increment">+</button>
      <button id="decrement">-</button>
      <div id="scoreboard"></div>
    </div>
  </script> 

    <script type="text/javascript">
      var score = 0;
      var scoreBoard = document.getElementById('scoreboard');
      scoreBoard.innerText = '0';

      function setScore(nextScore) {
        score = nextScore;
        scoreBoard.innerText = String(score);
      }

      document.getElementById('increment').addEventListener('click', function () {
        setScore(score + 1);
      });

      document.getElementById('decrement').addEventListener('click', function () {
        if (score) {
          setScore(score - 1);
        }
      });

      window.userale.map(function (log) {
        return Object.assign({}, log, { score: score }); // Add the "score" property to the log
      });
    </script>
  </body>
</html>

```


Test these examples out in our UserALE.js [example page](https://github.com/apache/incubator-flagon-useralejs/blob/master/example/index.html) test utility!

### Benefits of the UserALE.js API
 * No need to dig into our source code
 * Version control is easy and no need to sweat merges--just download the latest [release]({{ '/releases' | prepend: site.baseurl }}), 
    or update via [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/flagon-userale).
 * Manage logs page-by-page, ideal for large or complex sites
 * Use basic or best-practice JS styles and methods to build your own filters, no need to learn weird custom syntax.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!  Simply [submit an issue report](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/FLAGON) for problems 
you encounter or a pull request for your feature or bug fix.  The core team will review it and work with you to 
incorporate it into UserALE.js.
